[CLOSED] Light Freshness Edit: ASP.NET and EF Core - 3 tutorials (#37014)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/data/ef-mvc/sort-filter-page.md

---
title: Add Sort, Filter, Paging - ASP.NET MVC with EF Core
description: Add sorting, filtering, and paging functionality to the Students Index page, and create a page for simple grouping. This article is part of a tutorial series.
author: tdykstra
ms.author: tdykstra
ms.date: 04/17/2026
ms.topic: tutorial
uid: data/ef-mvc/sort-filter-page

# customer intent: As an ASP.NET developer, I want to add sorting, filtering, and paging functionality in ASP.NET MVC with EF Core, so I can customize my site pages and behavior.
---

# Tutorial: Add sorting, filtering, and paging - ASP.NET MVC with EF Core

> In the previous tutorial, you implemented a set of web pages for basic CRUD operations for Student entities. You created an MVC application that stores and displays data by using the [Entity Framework (EF) Core](/ef/core/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the previous tutorial, you implemented a set of web pages for basic CRUD operations for Student entities. In this tutorial, you add sorting, filtering, and paging functionality to the Students Index page. You also create a page that does simple grouping.
```
The last sentance contains content that belongs in the previous tutorial's intro, not this one. I removed the orphaned sentence about creating the MVC application (that's from the first tutorial, not the previous one) and reestored the grouping mention.

The two `ViewData` elements (`NameSortParm` and `DateSortParm`) are used by the view to configure the column heading hyperlinks with the appropriate query string values.

[!code-csharp[](intro/samples/cu/Controllers/StudentsController.cs?name=snippet_SortOnly&highlight=3-4)]

These code changes include ternary statements for the elements. The first statement specifies that if the `sortOrder` parameter is null or empty, the `NameSortParm` element is set to "name_desc." Otherwise, the element is set to an empty string. These two statements enable the view to set the column heading hyperlinks as follows:

| Current sort order | Last name hyperlink | Date hyperlink |
|---|---|---|
| Last Name ascending  | Descending          | Ascending      |
| Last Name descending | Ascending           | Ascending      |
| Date ascending       | Ascending           | Descending     |
| Date descending      | Ascending           | Ascending      |

> The method uses `LINQ` statements to student entities to specify the column to sort by. The code creates an `IQueryable` variable before the `switch` statement, modifies it in the `switch` statement, and calls the `ToListAsync` method after the `switch` statement. When you create and modify `IQueryable` variables, no query is sent to the database. The query isn't executed until you convert the `IQueryable` object into a collection by calling a method such as `ToListAsync`. Therefore, this code results in a single query that isn't executed until the `return View` statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The method uses LINQ to Entities to specify the column to sort by. The code creates an `IQueryable` variable before the `switch` statement, modifies it in the `switch` statement, and calls the `ToListAsync` method after the `switch` statement. When you create and modify `IQueryable` variables, no query is sent to the database. The query isn't executed until you convert the `IQueryable` object into a collection by calling a method such as `ToListAsync`. Therefore, this code results in a single query that isn't executed until the `return View` statement.
```
"LINQ to Entities" is a specific term, it is the LINQ provider for Entity Framework. "LINQ statements to student entities" is not a meaningful phrase and loses the technical reference. Additionally, LINQ should not be in backticks; it's a technology name, not a code symbol.
